♪During the dark night♪
♪A guiding light♪
♪Just like you♪
♪Makes life turn bright♪
♪Breaking free from darkness♪
♪You gave me strength♪
♪Running for truth♪
♪I find my path♪
♪Drawing on the hope♪
♪That you render me♪
♪In this long journey♪
♪I run on lightly♪
[Reborn]
[Adapted from Qiang Yu's work, Reborn]
[2007, Nanqiao Village, Shunyun County]
[Shunyun to Huanzhou]
Do you want some?
Hello?
I'm the landlady.
Hello, ma'am.
Yes.
Well, the property management fee...
Wait.
Didn't you only ask for a transfer fee?
I've already paid 80,000 in full.
Why would there be
a property management fee?
Ma'am,
we're doing a small business.
I'm so sorry, sir.
Please cut us some slack.
It's all right.
To be honest, we handle
the cleaning and rubbish
every day ourselves.
We don't need a management service.
Do you still care
about your eyesight or what?
Yes, of course I do.
I'll pay.
Good. When will you pay?
By the end of the year. Is that okay?
Hello?
I'll pay.
Sir, drive carefully.
My water spilled.
Everyone used to tell me,
"Just grow up.
Everything gets better
when you're older."
But why,
the older I get,
[Huanzhou]
the more confused I've become?
[Episode 1]
[Beiyu's Little Sister?]
[Qiao's Handmade Noodle House]
Grand Opening!
[Tripe slices, 4 yuan]
[Oyster, 5 yuan]
[Intestines, 5 yuan]
Hello, feel free to try
Qiao's Handmade Noodle House.
Hello, this is
Come try Qiao's Handmade Noodle House.
Fair price and generous portions.
Exactly.
[Qiao's Handmade Noodle House]
Hello, come try
Qiao's Handmade Noodle House.
It's the shop's opening. Welcome.
Fair price and generous portions.
You...
No.
Hello, feel free to try
Qiao's Handmade Noodle House.
It doesn't look like a proper opening.
We only set off
two strings of firecrackers.
Do people even know what we're doing?
When we opened in our hometown,
you prepared two flower baskets.
Now, nothing is ready.
And everything is in a mess.
I don't get it.
Why do you have to choose today?
Didn't I tell you?
The date is picked.
Today is a good day
to start the business.
Yes, I guess so.
This small shop
actually costs 80,000
for the transfer fee.
Aside from that,
there's also a property management fee.
I've never heard of it.
You know,
I bought some green veggies
this morning.
It was 0.8 yuan more per kilogram.
It was less than that
back in our hometown.
Why didn't you mention
we could sell a few more yuan
for each bowl of noodles?
Who do we sell the noodles to?
No one's here.
What happened?
Mom.
Did you get hurt?
Don't move.
Pieces for peace.
Everything is going well.
Enough.
You two go hand out fliers.
I'll clean up here.
All right. Go on.
Be careful.
I'll do it. Give it to me.
Where's Jinyu?
At the door.
Nice shot! Yeah!
You rascal.
Why didn't you tell me you went out?
Can't you learn from your sister
and help us out?
The noodle house is all busy.
I haven't paid yet.
Ma'am,
today's the first day
of our noodle house.
We haven't made any profits yet.
How about this?
I'll bring you a bowl of noodles.
Is that your shop?
Yes.
Don't worry.
We're neighbors.
We'll pay you back tomorrow.
It's all right.
Fliers.
Right. Fliers.
He's naughty.
How many children do you have?
Two.
She's the elder one, right?
It's good to have a boy and a girl.
You'll have a comfortable life
ahead of you.
Thanks, you as well.
All the best for your new business.
Thank you, ma'am.
Drop by anytime.
Sure.
We will.
Go in.
How blessed.
You splashed dirty water in my bowl!
I didn't.
The cloth is dry.
I saw the water splash over here.
Are you sure you saw that?
What's with your attitude?
Do you have no manners?
Fanghao.
I'll teach you some manners!
Say that again!
What happened?
Let me see.
No, don't go over there.
You're supposed to be providing service.
What's with your attitude?
He called me blind.
Sorry.
What's wrong with this brat?
Please calm down.
You're his mom?
He called me blind.
Please sit down and calm down.
Well.
Put it down.
Why are you so careless?
He was using a cloth
and splashed dirty water
into my noodles!
Please sit down and calm down.
I'll prepare a new bowl of noodles.
It won't take long.
What a temper.
Here's a new bowl of noodles for you.
I'm too pissed to eat anything else.
Why is the tire flat?
Bummer.
I didn't even touch her.
That's enough.
We're new in the town
and don't know anyone here.
We'll always end up losing out.
Are you okay?
Well, I'll give you a day off.
Take some rest.
Go ahead.
I thought being nice
would be a good start,
but she has a terrible temper.
Had you gone out earlier,
his hand wouldn't have been scalded.
There's no one I can rely on
in this family.
Order, please.
Coming.
Isn't it inappropriate
for a man to interfere
with women's arguments?
Let me.
Qingyu.
You're always
the sweetheart.
Sir, an extra fried egg, please.
Coming.
I'll do it.
Hey, don't.
Be careful.
Look at this.
I bought it in the morning market.
"May everything go well."
Not bad, right?
That's a good blessing.
But
you've bought
too many useless things here.
Look at these.
They are all useful.
They're worth a fortune, you know?
We need to watch our spending.
There will be plenty of expenses later.
Mom,
I don't want to share a room
with Qingyu.
Sleep on the streets, then.
Exactly.
Mom, where's my gaming console?
All you care about is playing games.
I don't like it here.
Why did we have to move?
What do you think?
It's all because of you two.
This place is better for learning.
[In Memoriam]
[Classmate Record]
Have you straightened everything up?
Mom.
How do you fold this blanket?
What are you even capable of?
Let me see.
Find the corner.
Look at your sister.
So smart and responsible.
Huanzhou High School admitted her
right after seeing
her academic transcript.
You, in contrast,
had a much tougher time
getting into a sports school.
That's right.
Qingyu excels in everything.
Then why did you give birth to me?
You think that was a mistake, huh?
Nonsense.
Mom,
take some rest.
We'll take care of this ourselves.
Did you hear that?
Do this yourself.
You're sensible and intelligent,
but what good is it?
Look how free I am.
Qingyu, I did you a favor just now.
You should treat me to a good meal.
In your dreams.
Is this how you repay your life savior?
Dad and Mom are already stressed enough.
Should I be like you
and irritate them again?
Yes, you're sensible,
but they've never given you any rewards.
On the contrary,
I've been slouching every day,
and they care more about me.
Dad and Mom pay
the least attention to you.
To be frank,
you're kind of a nobody.
Back in Shunyun,
many people thought
I only had one sister,
and it wasn't you.
You want another beating?
I'm telling the truth.
All right.
You're my only sister.
You're my sister forever.
Is that okay?
Talk to the hand.
[Classmate Record]
[May you sail through everything]
[Wish you a bright future.
Everything will be alright.]
[Ma Mingkai]
Qingyu,
it's only the first day of the business,
and my hand almost got burned off.
Is Huanzhou really as great as Mom says?
[So sorry we missed a proper goodbye.
Wishing you all the best!]
Qingyu.
What?
It's not easy to run a business
in a big city.
Mom said this.
Why do you always listen to her?
Honestly,
I know you don't want
to come to Huanzhou.
You were doing great
in Shunyun No. 1 High School
and might have been recommended
for university admission.
Now that you've come to Huanzhou,
your situation has completely changed.
I doubt you're fine with that.
There are more opportunities
in Huanzhou High School.
Perhaps I might
get into a better university
in the future.
Besides, new beginnings
bring
new opportunities.
The nerve of you!
Stand still. Don't run!
Get out of my way!
You're not getting away!
What are you doing?
Run as you want.
Keep running.
Don't move.
Take out the wallet.
I don't have any money.
Where's your money?
Money.
Ma Mingkai, I hope this letter
finds you well.
Everything in Huanzhou is going well.
Right now, I'm sitting
under a banyan tree by a river,
writing to you.
Shunyun and Huanzhou
are only a hundred kilometers apart,
but they're so much different.
You wrote in the classmate record
that you regretted not saying
a proper goodbye to me.
I believe life is full of separations.
But as written in novels,
"No matter how far people are apart,
the sky above us is always the same.
So, we never feel lonely,
no matter where we are."
I hope you'll study hard
and get good grades in NCEE.
Hopefully, we can get into
the same university.
[Ma Mingkai]
Hey.
You ruined my leaf.
Get out of my way!
This isn't yours.
This is my tree.
This banyan tree
[Ficus Altissima Blume]
belongs to Huanzhou Municipal
Forestry and Parks Bureau.
When I said it's mine, it's mine.
This letter.
Qiao Qingyu.
This name sounds familiar.
You can have it if you like.
I don't mind writing it again.
You've got guts.
Do you know who I am?
You don't know me, anyway.
I do.
Beiyu's
little sister.
Are you?
Two, two, three, four.
Five, six, seven.
Qiao Qingyu, let's go.
Wang rented out his rooftop unit.
He rented it out?
Why is ours still vacant?
You're not putting in any effort.
Right.
Hands off.
Mom hasn't eaten any meat yet.
I don't need it.
I eat it every day in the shop.
One of you is always jumping around,
and the other one is studying so hard.
Qingyu,
you need to work harder.
This isn't Shunyun.
Even if you were in the top ten
back there,
you're only an average student here,
right?
But that's fine.
They say everyone in your school
is an ace student.
They all strive hard to study.
I've given up on him.
He just can't study.
If you can get a diploma,
that's the best I could ask for.
So I'm counting on you
to make our family proud, right?
You're home.
I'm home.
Have you eaten yet?
I did.
There weren't any customers before 8 PM.
I waited there for a long time,
but no one came,
so I grabbed some dinner.
Don't be impatient.
It takes time to build a business.
We just opened, after all.
I brought you the medicine.
Take them on time.
All right.
Don't let your injuries act up again.
I know.
[Painkiller]
[Adolescent Sexual Health
Education Textbook]
Qingyu.
You're a grown-up girl.
As a girl in school,
you need to be careful
with what you do and say.
Stay away from
those who don't study well
and are a bad influence.
Safety comes first.
If it were just me and your dad,
we could live anywhere.
We went through all the hassle
just for the sake of you two.
We want to give you a better environment
in which you can focus on your studies.
Ouch!
What's wrong with you?
Why are you having trouble with this?
Let me see.
Is it a deep cut?
Why keep this unlucky stuff?
Those were her last pair of shoes.
Her belongings.
She looked so beautiful dancing on stage
in those shoes.
Everyone in Shunyun
knows Qiao Beiyu.
Mom said
once we moved to Huanzhou,
there was no such person
in this family anymore.
Mom again.
Well,
she's our sister after all.
She is not.
Sch.
What's with that scoff?
Whatever you truly think about,
you just repeat everything Mom says.
Qiao Jinyu!
Aw!
Well.
I mean,
you're the first child,
and I'm the second child.
Anyway, not many people here know us.
You don't know me, anyway.
I do.
Beiyu's
little sister.
Isn't this Beiyu's little sister?
Stay.
Oh, nice.
You're pretty.
I don't know you.
We know you.
Where are you going?
Don't go.
Go away.
[Huanzhou High School]
[School Compound Floor Map]
Meixi, wait for me.
Where did you go during the break?
My dad took me to Hong Kong, China
for a concert.
That's wonderful.
I wish I could go to a concert.
A warning demerit isn't that bad.
Once or twice isn't a problem.
His father's the problem.
He's difficult to deal with.
Why do you think
Sun wanted us
to post Sheng's demerit notice?
He knows we're tight.
[Huanzhou High School]
This is
[Demerit Notice for Ming Sheng]
a warning for us.
Ming Sheng?
Why aren't you in your uniform?
Are you a newcomer?
Sun mentioned
there would be a new transfer student.
Are you the one?
I'm Qiao Qingyu, the new transfer
to Class 5, Grade 2.
Oh, it's really you.
What a fate.
Let me introduce myself. I'm Ye Zilin.
Chen Hao.
Hello.
Our class is assigned to clean
the natatorium this morning.
How about this?
We'll take you there now.
You don't have to go to the classroom.
Yeah. No one's in the classroom now.
The natatorium is over there.
Let's go.
Come.
Come. Let's go.
This way.
Over here.
Cleaning the natatorium
in the early morning, eh?
Who arranged this?
Stop complaining.
Consider it as exercise.
Qiao,
see those coiled lane lines?
Go and fix them.
Isn't that your job?
Let the newcomer have a chance.
Here. Take this.
It's almost time for morning study.
Why hasn't anyone shown up yet?
Don't tell me only a few of us
cleaning up all this.
Tell me about it.
They have no team spirit whatsoever.
Hey.
She fell in.
Help her!
Who fell into the pool?
What are you standing here for?
Save her!
Grab this.
Ye Zilin, was it you?
Not me.
I didn't know how she fell in.
Was it you?
I didn't see anything.
Who is this?
[Class 5, Grade 2, Senior High]
Enough. Quiet.
Let me see who's so talkative.
Qiao Qingyu just transferred here
from Shunyun No. 1 High School.
Despite an initial setback,
I believe in the days to come,
Qingyu will definitely feel
the fiery passion
of our class.
What's wrong with you guys?
Do you want to take home
a few more papers
to fuel your passion?
All right.
Qiao Qingyu,
you'll sit next to Jiang Nian.
If you have any questions,
go to Liu Jia.
She's our class monitor.
Alright Class, please turn to
the third section of Chapter two.
Thank you for lending me your uniform.
You're welcome.
My mom's also from Shunyun.
So we're practically
from the same hometown.
How come she fell into the pool?
Who fell into the pool?
What are you standing here for?
Save her!
Grab this.
Who is this?
Hurry up.
Here are some tips for you.
Keep your distance from them.
They're notorious
for being the worst students
in our grade.
Ye Zilin, a transient student.
No matter how poor his NCEE grade is,
he'll inherit his family's shoe factory.
Chen Hao is a sports student.
A long jumper.
He's already pre-admitted
to Huanzhou Sport University.
They may be terrible in their studies,
but they're best
when it comes to pranks.
As for Ming Sheng...
Beiyu's little sister.
You got the wrong person.
[The proper way to protect yourself
from harassment]
When sexual harassment or assault
happens,
dealing with it wisely and bravely
can help stop it.
Don't be weak or helpless.
If attacked, shout for help
to distract the perpetrator
and signal for assistance.
These are the correct ways
to deal with the situation.
As for high school students,
especially girls,
where does harassment
most commonly happen?
The newcomer,
please stand up and answer.
Page 34, third section.
[Qiao Qingyu]
Qiao Qingyu,
where does harassment commonly happen?
Ma'am, I know why
she can't answer your question.
Qiao Qingyu,
why is it all blacked out?
Are you highlighting the main points?
I can't read them clearly.
Ye, what's wrong with you?
You shouldn't touch girls' things
without asking.
You're disrespecting girls.
Ma'am.
I'm so sorry.
That being said, Qiao Qingyu,
you're living so righteously.
Are you from the ancient times?
Please behave.
For a long time,
the lack of knowledge
about physiological hygiene
has made any discussion
about intimacy a sensitive topic.
I hope that through this session,
physiological hygiene
will become as common a topic
as eating and sleeping.
Why are you still up?
My slippers.
Are you not feeling well?
Hurry and go to sleep.
You have to go to school early tomorrow.
Did you do something to my textbook?
Hmm.
What's wrong?
Did you argue with someone at school?
Is the food at the canteen terrible?
You can cancel the school meal
starting tomorrow.
We'll prepare your lunch,
and you can take it to school.
It's not about food.
You're not adjusting to the new school?
Don't worry.
Try to make some new friends.
Right?
You'll get used to it over time.
What's this?
These are useless.
It's not tested in NCEE.
Do not read this nonsense.
This is a school textbook.
I don't care about others,
but you can't read
this nonsense.
It's part of the curriculum.
Qiao Qingyu, how old are you?
You're 17.
You're a 17-year-old girl.
Why do you need to read such nonsense?
You didn't teach Qiao Beiyu back then,
that's why she ended up like that.
She ended up that way
because she read nonsense
like this!
Well, be nice.
You...
Didn't we agree
not to bring this up again
after moving to Huanzhou?
It's late now.
You're disturbing my sleep.
Right. They have to go
to school tomorrow.
Go to sleep.
School's tomorrow,
so get an early night.
All right. Go to sleep.
Don't be mad. The girl didn't mean it.
I did.
Qiao Qingyu.
Qiao Qingyu!
Why are you walking away so fast?
We're classmates.
We'll have plenty of chances to meet.
What exactly do you want?
How are you going to compensate me?
Bite me back
and we're even.
If it were someone else,
the consequences would be different.
But you're an intelligent student,
so I'll go easy on you.
My hand hurts.
I can't do my homework.
You do it for me.
I've just transferred here
and have a lot to catch up on.
I don't have time to help you with that.
You don't have time?
Don't you want to know
What really happened
to your sister?
- Go!
- Come on!
You don't have time?
Don't you want to know
what really happened to your sister?
[Shunyun]
Isn't that Qiao?
It's said she died of AIDS.
AIDS?
Yeah.
She died at a very young age.
Oh.
What a pity.
Let's eat here.
[Qiao's Handmade Noodle House]
Be careful.
Higher.
[Shop for Transfer]
Once we leave here,
we can say goodbye to the past
and start over.
Are you done with your homework?
Hmm.
Are you adjusting well to school?
Quite well.
Are you keeping up with the syllabus?
Hmm.
They say
students at your school
don't just do questions from textbooks.
They also do extra
or even more advanced questions.
You need to push yourself hard.
If not, the gap between you and them
will grow bigger,
and you won't catch up with them.
Oh, right.
Aunt Qin is sick again.
Go to the bank this Sunday
to send 500 yuan to Uncle Jiangsheng
in Nanqiao Village.
What's Aunt Qin sick with?
They say she had a mental problem.
Her condition has been unstable
over these years.
Your uncle has been taking her
for treatments,
but there's no improvement.
What's wrong with me?
I keep calling her Aunt Qin like you.
I can't change it.
What about Qiao Beiyu, then?
Dad and you never mentioned it.
Wait.
It was appendicitis.
I told you before.
There were complications after surgery.
But everyone says she had AIDS.
What... What AIDS?
Who told you that?
Nonsense! These are simply rumors!
If it's nonsense,
why didn't you argue with them?
How?
How am I even able
to argue with so many people?
You are so ignorant.
Words can kill, you know?
But if we don't make it clear,
we keep getting bullied
and dragged into trouble,
no matter where we go.
Who bullied you?
We've already moved to a new place.
She's dead.
Everything is in the past.
No, it's not.
What do you want, then?
♪Perhaps♪
♪The more we care,
the more careful we become♪
♪Counting the distance
that separates us♪
♪A single step,
and we'd be closer still♪
♪In the future♪
♪Time will reveal this secret♪
♪Waiting is a silent promise♪
♪That never expires♪
♪Turns out that what's on my mind♪
♪Is your name♪
♪The only stubbornness in my heart♪
♪At first sight♪
♪The future has been determined♪
♪Dreams began to feel real♪
♪Turns out that what's on your mind♪
♪Is a place♪
♪Where the same story is held dear♪
♪Fortunately, I'm not sensible enough♪
♪Courage wasn't late too♪
♪Only then does time not betray
our acquaintance♪